# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

* [`account`](#account): Parameters needed by defined types in this module

**Defined types**

_Public Defined types_

* [`account::grant::administrators`](#accountgrantadministrators): Grant accounts Administrators access on Windows
* [`account::grant::group`](#accountgrantgroup): Grant accounts access to a specific group
* [`account::grant::rdp`](#accountgrantrdp): Grant accounts RDP access on Windows
* [`account::user`](#accountuser): Manage a user account

_Private Defined types_

* `account::user::splatnix`: This is not intended to be used directly. Use account::user instead.
* `account::user::windows`: This is not intended to be used directly. Use account::user instead.

## Classes

### account

There's no need to instantiate this class; it does nothing. It's used for
setting parameters in hiera that account::user and friends can access.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `account` class.

##### `common_shared_accounts`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of shared accounts to which all users will have their keys added.

Default value: []

##### `cygwin`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not to use Cygwin on Windows. This defaults to the value of
`cygwin::enable` in hiera, which is where you should set it. (It, in turn,
defaults to `false`.)

Default value: lookup('cygwin::enable', Boolean, undef, false)

## Defined types

### account::grant::administrators

This takes all accounts in a specified group, and adds them to the
Administrators group. On splatnix this does nothing.

#### Examples

##### Give all the sysadmins administrative access

```puppet
account::grant::administrators { 'sysadmin': }
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `account::grant::administrators` defined type.

##### `to_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group to give administrative access to. Generally, you should just use
the title.

Default value: $title

### account::grant::group

This grants all accounts with access to one group, access to another group.

#### Examples

##### Add all sysadmins to the adm group

```puppet
account::grant::group { 'adm>sysadmin': }
```

##### Another way to add all sysadmins to the adm group

```puppet
account::grant::group { 'give sysadmins adm access':
  new_group => 'adm',
  to_group  => 'sysadmin',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `account::grant::group` defined type.

##### `new_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The new group. Generally, you should just use the title.

Default value: ('>')[0]

##### `to_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group that will get the new access. Generally, you should just use the
title.

Default value: ('>')[1]

### account::grant::rdp

This takes all accounts in a specified group, and adds them to the Remote
Desktop Users group. On splatnix this does nothing.

#### Examples

##### Give all users RDP access

```puppet
account::grant::rdp { 'Users': }
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `account::grant::rdp` defined type.

##### `to_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group to give RDP access to. Generally, you should just use the title.

Default value: $title

### account::user

Manage a user account

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `account::user` defined type.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Whether to ensure the user is present or absent on the node.

Default value: 'present'

##### `group`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Primary group for the user.

Default value: `undef`

##### `groups`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Secondary groups for the user. There is no distinction on Windows.

Default value: []

##### `comment`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Comment field for the user. This is generally the user's name.

Default value: `undef`

##### `shell`

Data type: `Enum[
    '/bin/bash',
    '/bin/sh',
    '/bin/zsh',
    '/bin/false',
    '/usr/sbin/nologin',
    '/usr/bin/git-shell'
  ]`

Full path to the user's preferred shell. This does nothing on Windows.

Default value: '/bin/bash'

##### `home`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Full path to the user's home directory. This does nothing on Windows.

Default value: `undef`

##### `home_source_module`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A module that contains files to put in the user's home directory, e.g.
.bashrc. By default, the home directory is just set up with a .README file
that explains how to use this parameter.

The module is expected to have a directory named after the user at the top
level that contains the files. For example, modules/userdirs/luke/.bashrc

This does nothing on Windows.

Default value: `undef`

##### `uid`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

User id number for the user. This does nothing on Windows.

Default value: `undef`

##### `usekey`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not to manage SSH keys for the user. If this is false, then keys
will not be added or removed.

You can still set up keys externally if `$usekey` is false.

This doesn't do anything on Windows; it is effectively always true.

Default value: `true`

##### `key`

Data type: `Optional[Ssh::Key::String]`

SSH public key. This must not contain the type or the comment — it's just
the second part, after ssh-rsa or whatever your keytype is.

Default value: `undef`

##### `keytype`

Data type: `Ssh::Key::Type`

The type of your SSH key.

Default value: 'ssh-rsa'

##### `expire`

Data type: `Optional[Account::Date]`

When the user account expires in YYYY-MM-DD format.

Default value: `undef`

##### `password`

Data type: `Optional[Sensitive]`

A password for the user. If this is left undefined, you will simply not be
able to use password authentication on splatnix (*nix: Linux, BSD, macOS,
and Solaris).

Windows requires passwords. If it is not specified, this module will remove
the user account.

Default value: `undef`

##### `shared_accounts`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of shared accounts to add the user's SSH key to.

Default value: []

